---
layout: post
title: "Final Writeup"
date: 2025-05-07 14:09:37 -0500
categories: final
---

### Project Overview

My project is a visual inspiration board that allows users to interact with their saved inspirtation in a more active way. Users can make quick choices between two images at a time, creating a new board with the images selected. Using machine learning and AI, the images are then connected by visual similarity to see different connections between the images. My key design question is: **How might we help creatives better engage with their shared inspiration in a more active way and organize their aesthetic direction based on their current context/project?**

## User Research

For my user research, I conducted two interviews and one observation of a designer seeking inspiration, which highlighted several key pain points in how creative individuals manage visual inspiration. Users tend to collect inspiration from different sources such as Instagram, Pinterest, and screenshots, but struggle with organization due to time constraints and friction in categorization flows. Additionally, many have a "hoarding mentality," saving content they might never use but hesitate to delete. When starting new projects, they face difficulty locating specific references within their collections, especially when inspiration spans multiple sources and styles.

This experience fails to meet emotional needs for effortless organization and the satisfaction of actually utilizing saved content. Functionally, users require a system that simplifies categorization and allows users to revisit their saved inspiration in a more active way.

## Technology

For this project, I used the following tech stack:

- Next.js for the frontend
- MobileNet (google/mobilenet_v2_1.4_224) for image classification
- Hugging Face (openai/clip-vit-base-patch32) for image similarity
- React Flow for the canvas UI

## Implementation

My solution to this problem is a visual inspiration board that allows users to interact with their saved inspiration in a more active way. Users are able to choose between two random images at a time, creating a new board with the images selected. This way, users can revisit their saved inspiration that they might have forgotten about. Using the images the user selected, a new inspiration board is generated where the images are connected by visual similarity. The more similar the images are, the thicker the connection line is. Additionally, can view tags classified by MobileNet and the core color palette of the image.

## Interface

I experimented with different UI designs for navigating through your collection of inspiration and how to visualize the results. These included a clustered group layout where AI categorizes images, a dating app-inspired swiping interface for image selection, a basic gallery with AI-generated tags and color extraction, a grid layout with theme-based filtering, and a drag-and-drop interface for AI analysis of selected images. I was able to get feedback from five users, which revealed that the swiping interface was the most interesting and ended up being the direction I went in. I wanted the user to

I also experimented with different ways to visualize the similarity between the images. For visualizing the inspiration board, I struggled with this at first, but knew I wanted to generate a starting point for the user to interact with. I decided on a canvas UI where the user can view the generated board, but also interact with the images and organize them in their own way.

## System Diagram

## Conclusion
