---
layout: post
title: "Define Your Problem"
date: 2025-02-19 14:09:37 -0500
categories: homework
---

# Define Your Problem

The key issue I want to explore is how we can leverage AI to enhance real-time collaborative digital experiences with AI, while preserving authentic human interactions and connections. Current digital collaborative tools lack the spontaneity of in-person interactions, which can negatively impact our work and social connections as our world becomes more and more digital.

**Target Audience**

This is a problem for many teams working remotely, communities looking for more authentic social interactions in digital spaces, or people seeking new ways to collaborate. Some ways I could research their needs more is by observing how they interact and collaborate with others online, conducting user interviews, or analyzing current collaborative tools.

**Social/Cultural Factors**

Ever since the pandemic there has been an increase in remote work, leading to digital fatigue and isolation. These days, we spend more time on our phones rather than in person. As a result, there is more of a need for authentic connection in virtual spaces.

**Evidence**

Recent studies have shown that there is a reduction in creative output during remote collaboration sessions compared to in-person sessions. Additionally, users have a higher cognitive load during Zoom calls due to increased self-awareness and reduced verbal cues. There also seems to be an increase in digital collaboration tools ever since the pandemic.

**Why AI?**

AI can be more beneficial for this problem space, as AI can reduce the cognitive load for users during collaborative sessions. AI can also reduce the redundancy of current collaborative sessions and be more aware of the contexts. Additionally, AI can personalize the collaborative experience based on interests, work styles, or personal preferences.

**How might we…**

1. How might we create digital spaces for online communities by using AI to understand people’s shared interests so that they can form connections based on their shared interests?
2. How might we facilitate spontaneous interaction in digital spaces for online communities by using AI for presence detection so that people can discover opportunities for collaboration?
3. How might we improve group dynamics for collaborative groups by using AI to detect emotions so that users can better respond to social cues?
4. How might we improve cross-cultural collaboration for diverse communities by using a speech to text translation model so that people can work together through language barriers?
5. How might we create a shared experience for online communities by using real-time interaction AI so that members can naturally gather in virtual spaces that reflect their shared activities and interests?
